A ball is a round object (usually spherical, but can sometimes be ovoid)[1] with several uses. It is used in ball games,
 where the play of the game follows the state of the ball as it is hit, kicked or thrown by players. Balls can also be u
 sed for simpler activities, such as catch or juggling. Balls made from hard-wearing materials are used in engineering a
 pplications to provide very low friction bearings, known as ball bearings. Black-powder weapons use stone and metal bal
 ls as projectiles.

Although many types of balls are today made from rubber, this form was unknown outside the Americas until after the voya
ges of Columbus. The Spanish were the first Europeans to see the bouncing rubber balls (although solid and not inflated)
 which were employed most notably in the Mesoamerican ballgame. Balls used in various sports in other parts of the world
  prior to Columbus were made from other materials such as animal bladders or skins, stuffed with various materials.

As balls are one of the most familiar spherical objects to humans, the word "ball" may refer to or describe spherical or
 near-spherical objects.

"Ball" is used metaphorically sometimes to denote something spherical or spheroid, e.g., armadillos and human beings cur
l up into a ball, making a fist into a ball.
Etymology

The first known use of the word ball in English in the sense of a globular body that is played with was in 1205 in Layam
on's Brut, or Chronicle of Britain in the phrase, "Summe heo driuen balles wide ȝeond Þa feldes." ("Some of them drove b
alls far across the fields.") The word came from the Middle English bal (inflected as ball-e, -es), in turn from Old Nor
se böllr (pronounced [bɔlːr]; compare Old Swedish baller, and Swedish boll) from Proto-Germanic ballu-z (whence probably
 Middle High German bal, ball-es, Middle Dutch bal), a cognate with Old High German ballo, pallo, Middle High German bal
 le from Proto-Germanic *ballon (weak masculine), and Old High German ballâ, pallâ, Middle High German balle, Proto-Germ
 anic *ballôn (weak feminine). No Old English representative of any of these is known. (The answering forms in Old Engli
 sh would have been beallu, -a, -e—compare bealluc, ballock.) If ball- was native in Germanic, it may have been a cognat
 e with the Latin foll-is in sense of a "thing blown up or inflated." In the later Middle English spelling balle the wor
 d coincided graphically with the French balle "ball" and "bale" which has hence been erroneously assumed to be its sour
 ce. French balle (but not boule) is assumed to be of Germanic origin, itself, however. In Ancient Greek the word πάλλα
 (palla) for "ball" is attested[2] besides the word σφαίρα (sfaíra), sphere.[3]
History
Russian leather balls (Russian: мячи), 12th-13th century.

Some form of game with a ball is found portrayed on Egyptian monuments.[4] In Homer, Nausicaa was playing at ball with h
er maidens when Odysseus first saw her in the land of the Phaeacians (Od. vi. 100). And Halios and Laodamas performed be
fore Alcinous and Odysseus with ball play, accompanied with dancing (Od. viii. 370).[5] The most ancient balls in Eurasi
a have been discovered in Karasahr, China and are 3000 years old. They were made of hair-filled leather.[6]
Ancient Greeks

Among the ancient Greeks, games with balls (σφαῖραι) were regarded as a useful subsidiary to the more violent athletic e
xercises, as a means of keeping the body supple, and rendering it graceful, but were generally left to boys and girls. O
f regular rules for the playing of ball games, little trace remains, if there were any such. The names in Greek for vari
ous forms, which have come down to us in such works as the Ὀνομαστικόν of Julius Pollux, imply little or nothing of suc
h; thus, ἀπόρραξις (aporraxis) only means the putting of the ball on the ground with the open hand, οὐρανία (ourania), t
he flinging of the ball in the air to be caught by two or more players; φαινίνδα (phaininda) would seem to be a game of
catch played by two or more, where feinting is used as a test of quickness and skill. Pollux (i. x. 104) mentions a game
 called episkyros (ἐπίσκυρος), which has often been looked on as the origin of football. It seems to have been played by
  two sides, arranged in lines; how far there was any form of "goal" seems uncertain.[5] It was impossible to produce a
  ball that was perfectly spherical;[7] children usually made their own balls by inflating pig's bladders and heating th
  em in the ashes of a fire to make them rounder,[7] although Plato (fl. 420s BC – 340s BC) described "balls which have
  leather coverings in twelve pieces".[8]