Botany, also called plant science, is the branch of natural science and biology studying plants, especially their anatom
y, taxonomy, and ecology.[1] A botanist or plant scientist is a scientist who specialises in this field. "Plant" and "bo
tany" may be defined more narrowly to include only land plants and their study, which is also known as phytology. Nowada
ys, phytologists or botanists (in the strict sense) study approximately 410,000 species of land plants, including some 3
91,000 species of vascular plants (of which approximately 369,000 are flowering plants)[2] and approximately 20,000 bryo
phytes.[3]

Botany originated in prehistory as herbalism with the efforts of early humans to identify – and later cultivate – plants
 that were edible, poisonous, and possibly medicinal, making it one of the first endeavours of human investigation. Medi
 eval physic gardens, often attached to monasteries, contained plants possibly having medicinal benefit. They were forer
 unners of the first botanical gardens attached to universities, founded from the 1540s onwards. One of the earliest was
  the Padua botanical garden. These gardens facilitated the academic study of plants. Efforts to catalogue and describe
  their collections were the beginnings of plant taxonomy and led in 1753 to the binomial system of nomenclature of Carl
   Linnaeus that remains in use to this day for the naming of all biological species.

In the 19th and 20th centuries, new techniques were developed for the study of plants, including methods of optical micr
oscopy and live cell imaging, electron microscopy, analysis of chromosome number, plant chemistry and the structure and
function of enzymes and other proteins. In the last two decades of the 20th century, botanists exploited the techniques
of molecular genetic analysis, including genomics and proteomics and DNA sequences to classify plants more accurately.

Modern botany is a broad subject with contributions and insights from most other areas of science and technology. Resear
ch topics include the study of plant structure, growth and differentiation, reproduction, biochemistry and primary metab
olism, chemical products, development, diseases, evolutionary relationships, systematics, and plant taxonomy. Dominant t
hemes in 21st-century plant science are molecular genetics and epigenetics, which study the mechanisms and control of ge
ne expression during differentiation of plant cells and tissues. Botanical research has diverse applications in providin
g staple foods, materials such as timber, oil, rubber, fibre and drugs, in modern horticulture, agriculture and forestry
, plant propagation, breeding and genetic modification, in the synthesis of chemicals and raw materials for construction
 and energy production, in environmental management, and the maintenance of biodiversity.
Etymology

The term "botany" comes from the Ancient Greek word botanē (βοτάνη) meaning "pasture", "herbs" "grass", or "fodder";[4]
Botanē is in turn derived from boskein (Greek: βόσκειν), "to feed" or "to graze".[5][6][7] Traditionally, botany has als
o included the study of fungi and algae by mycologists and phycologists respectively, with the study of these three grou
ps of organisms remaining within the sphere of interest of the International Botanical Congress.
History
Main article: History of botany
Early botany
engraving of cork cells from Hooke's Micrographia, 1665
An engraving of the cells of cork, from Robert Hooke's Micrographia, 1665
Leonhart Fuchs
Otto Brunfels
Hieronymus Bock

Botany originated as herbalism, the study and use of plants for their possible medicinal properties.[8] The early record
ed history of botany includes many ancient writings and plant classifications. Examples of early botanical works have be
en found in ancient texts from India dating back to before 1100 BCE,[9][10] Ancient Egypt,[11] in archaic Avestan writin
gs, and in works from China purportedly from before 221 BCE.[9][12]

Modern botany traces its roots back to Ancient Greece specifically to Theophrastus (c. 371–287 BCE), a student of Ari
stotle who invented and described many of its principles and is widely regarded in the scientific community as the "Fath
er of Botany".[13] His major works, Enquiry into Plants and On the Causes of Plants, constitute the most important contr
ibutions to botanical science until the Middle Ages, almost seventeen centuries later.[13][14]

Another work from Ancient Greece that made an early impact on botany is De materia medica, a five-volume encyclopedia ab
out preliminary herbal medicine written in the middle of the first century by Greek physician and pharmacologist Pedaniu
s Dioscorides. De materia medica was widely read for more than 1,500 years.[15] Important contributions from the medieva
l Muslim world include Ibn Wahshiyya's Nabatean Agriculture, Abū Ḥanīfa Dīnawarī's (828–896) the Book of Plants, and Ibn
 Bassal's The Classification of Soils. In the early 13th century, Abu al-Abbas al-Nabati, and Ibn al-Baitar (d. 1248) wr
 ote on botany in a systematic and scientific manner.[16][17][18]

In the mid-16th century, botanical gardens were founded in a number of Italian universities. The Padua botanical garden
in 1545 is usually considered to be the first which is still in its original location. These gardens continued the pract
ical value of earlier "physic gardens", often associated with monasteries, in which plants were cultivated for suspected
 medicinal uses. They supported the growth of botany as an academic subject. Lectures were given about the plants grown
 in the gardens. Botanical gardens came much later to northern Europe; the first in England was the University of Oxford
  Botanic Garden in 1621.[19]

German physician Leonhart Fuchs (1501–1566) was one of "the three German fathers of botany", along with theologian Otto
Brunfels (1489–1534) and physician Hieronymus Bock (1498–1554) (also called Hieronymus Tragus).[20][21] Fuchs and Brunfe
ls broke away from the tradition of copying earlier works to make original observations of their own. Bock created his o
wn system of plant classification.

Physician Valerius Cordus (1515–1544) authored a botanically and pharmacologically important herbal Historia Plantarum i
n 1544 and a pharmacopoeia of lasting importance, the Dispensatorium in 1546.[22] Naturalist Conrad von Gesner (1516–156
5) and herbalist John Gerard (1545 – c. 1611) published herbals covering the supposed medicinal uses of plants. Natur
alist Ulisse Aldrovandi (1522–1605) was considered the father of natural history, which included the study of plants. In
 1665, using an early microscope, Polymath Robert Hooke discovered cells (a term he coined) in cork, and a short time la
 ter in living plant tissue.[23]