A politician is a person who participates in policy-making processes, usually holding a position in government. Politici
ans represent the people, make decisions, and influence the formulation of public policy. The roles or duties that polit
icians must perform vary depending on the level of government they serve, whether local, national, or international. The
 ideological orientation that politicians adopt often stems from their previous experience, education, beliefs, the poli
 tical parties they belong to, or public opinion.

Politicians sometimes face many challenges and mistakes that may affect their credibility and ability to persuade. These
 mistakes include political corruption resulting from their misuse and exploitation of power to achieve their interests,
  which requires them to prioritize the public interest and develop long-term strategies. Challenges include how to keep
   up with the development of social media and confronting biased media, in addition to discrimination against them on t
   he basis of gender, race, or belief, which requires them to adapt their communications to engage citizens, confront d
   iscrimination, and spread their message effectively.
Identity
Nineteenth-century painting by Philipp Foltz depicting the Athenian politician Pericles delivering his famous funeral or
ation in front of the Assembly.

Politicians are people who participate in policy-making, in a multifaceted variety of positions of responsibility both d
omestically and internationally.[1][2]

The role of the politician has changed dramatically over time, for example, Pericles of Athens played an important role
in politics in ancient Greece both in public life and in decision-making as depicted in Philip Foltz's 19th-century pain
ting.[3]

Over time the figure of the politician has evolved to include many forms and functions. For example, In the United State
s of America, George Washington played a pivotal role as a politician because he was the first President of the United S
tates of America.[4] Today, political offices take many forms in the modern century in the United States of America such
 as ministers, mayors, governors, senators, and presidents, each of whom has different duties.[5]

While all government leaders are considered politicians, not all politicians are subject to voters, autocratic and dicta
torial regimes remain extant.[6]
This portrait is a copy by Stuart based on his own uncompleted w:Athenaeum Portrait. This copy has been published in pre
-1923 materials, including p. 442 of The Life of George Washington and p. 79 of Early American Painters.

The identity of politicians is influenced by their social and work environments, their ideology, and the parties to whic
h they belong, furthermore, the development of means of communication and social media have increased public participati
on in policy-making, leading to a reformation of politician's identity and increasing the complexity of political work.[
7][8]
Media and rhetoric
Barack Obama, Public Speech, Technology and Innovation, Manufacturing, Intel Fab 42.Political leaders use public events
to frame issues and influence public opinion by crafting appropriate rhetoric.

Politicians are influential people who use rhetoric to impact people as in speeches or campaign advertisements. They are
 especially known for using common themes, and media platforms that allow them to develop their political positions, dev
 eloping communication between them and the people.[9][10][11]
Photo of the second of the four presidential debates held during the 1960 presidential election. This debate took place
in Washington D.C. at NBC's WRC-TV studios on October 7, 1960.

Politicians of necessity become expert users of the media.[12] Politicians in the 19th century made heavy use of newspap
ers, magazines, and pamphlets, as well as posters to disseminate their messages to appeal to voters' emotions and belief
s in their campaigns.[13][14] In the 20th century, the scope of media expanded out into radio and television, and a majo
r change occurred as speech was now presented visually as well as verbally as evidenced by the Kennedy-Nixon debates, ma
rking a new era where visual media became crucial to campaigns.[15] The twenty-first century has provided wide and diver
se media platforms represented by Facebook, and Twitter, which has now become X, Instagram, YouTube, and others. This de
velopment has made their rhetorical messages faster, shorter more efficient, and characterized by the speed of spread an
d interaction.[16][17][18]

Politicians, who rarely meet voters in person, seek to use the media as a means of communicating with people, winning vo
tes, and obtaining political roles. Some research confirms that the media increases the popularity of a politician, and
indicates that negative news has a stronger effect on popularity than positive news.[19]

Some research has suggested that politicians tend to use social media more than traditional media because their percepti
on of the traditional media's influence as a public informant greatly affects their satisfaction with democratic process
es. So they prefer to use social media and communicate directly with people in order to have greater control over their
message and easier communication.[20]

This continuous evolution in media has made politicians adapt their discourse to these diverse and evolving platforms fo
r greater communication and effectiveness.[21]