The University of Pennsylvania (Penn[note 3] or UPenn[note 4]) is a private Ivy League research university in Philadelph
ia, Pennsylvania, United States. It is one of nine colonial colleges and was chartered prior to the U.S. Declaration of
Independence when Benjamin Franklin, the university's founder and first president, advocated for an educational institut
ion that trained leaders in academia, commerce, and public service.

The university has four undergraduate schools and 12 graduate and professional schools. Schools enrolling undergraduates
 include the College of Arts and Sciences, the School of Engineering and Applied Science, the Wharton School, and the Sc
 hool of Nursing. Among its graduate schools are its law school, whose first professor James Wilson participated in writ
 ing the first draft of the U.S. Constitution, and its medical school, which was the first medical school established in
  North America.

In 2023, Penn ranked third among U.S. universities in research expenditures, according to the National Science Foundatio
n.[16] Its endowment is $22.3 billion, making it the sixth-wealthiest private academic institution in the nation as of 2
024. The University of Pennsylvania's main campus is located in the University City neighborhood of West Philadelphia, a
nd is centered around College Hall. Notable campus landmarks include Houston Hall, the first modern student union, and F
ranklin Field, the nation's first dual-level college football stadium and the nation's longest-standing NCAA Division I
college football stadium in continuous operation.[17] The university's athletics program, the Penn Quakers, fields varsi
ty teams in 33 sports as a member of NCAA Division I's Ivy League conference.

Penn alumni, trustees, and faculty include eight Founding Fathers of the United States who signed the Declaration of Ind
ependence,[18][19] seven who signed the U.S. Constitution,[19] 24 members of the Continental Congress, three Presidents
of the United States (including the 9th, 45th, 46th and 47th Presidents),[note 5] 38 Nobel laureates, nine foreign heads
 of state, three United States Supreme Court justices, at least four Supreme Court justices of foreign nations,[20] 32 U
 .S. senators, 163 members of the U.S. House of Representatives, 19 U.S. Cabinet Secretaries, 46 governors, 28 State Sup
 reme Court justices, 36 living undergraduate billionaires (the largest number of any U.S. college or university),[21] a
 nd five Medal of Honor recipients.[22][23]
History
Main article: History of the University of Pennsylvania

In 1740, a group of Philadelphians organized to erect a great preaching hall for George Whitefield, a traveling Anglican
 evangelist,[24] which was designed and constructed by Edmund Woolley. It was the largest building in Philadelphia at th
 e time, and thousands of people attended it to hear Whitefield preach.[25]:26

In the fall of 1749, Benjamin Franklin, a Founding Father and polymath in Philadelphia, circulated a pamphlet, "Proposal
s Relating to the Education of Youth in Pensilvania," his vision for what he called a "Public Academy of Philadelphia".[
26]

On June 16, 1755, the College of Philadelphia was chartered, paving the way for the addition of undergraduate instructio
n.[27]

Penn identifies as the fourth-oldest institution of higher education in the United States, though this representation is
 challenged by Princeton and Columbia since the College of Philadelphia was not chartered or commence classes until 1755
  and the first board of trustees was not convened until 1749, arguably making it the sixth or fifth-oldest.[note 2]
Campus
Cope and Stewardson, the primary architects for Penn's campus, were Penn professors who designed this Quadrangle dormito
ry in a Collegiate Gothic style. This image, taken in 2007, includes a replica of a non operational 1920s trolley car, s
imilar to version that used to run down Locust Street, and now forms part of an entrance to SEPTA's 37th Street subway s
tation

Much of the current architecture on Penn's campus was designed by the Philadelphia-based architecture firm Cope and Stew
ardson, whose owners were Philadelphia born and raised architects and Penn professors who also designed Princeton Univer
sity and a large part of Washington University in St. Louis.[28][29] They were known for having combined the Gothic arch
itecture of the University of Oxford and University of Cambridge with the local landscape to establish the Collegiate Go
thic style.[30]

Penn's main artery at center of Penn's Campus Historic District is Locust Walk, a pedestrian only walkway first announce
d by Penn President, Harold Stassen in 1948.[31] Work began in the summer of 1960, and was completed in 1972.[32]
Penn's main artery, Locust Walk, a pedestrian artery traversing six blocks from 40th Street to 35th Street in University
 City, in March 2024

The present core campus covers over 299 acres (121 ha) in a contiguous area of West Philadelphia's University City secti
on, and the older heart of the campus comprises the University of Pennsylvania Campus Historic District. All of Penn's s
chools and most of its research institutes are located on this campus. The surrounding neighborhood includes several res
taurants, bars, a large upscale grocery store, and a movie theater on the western edge of campus. Penn's core campus bor
ders Drexel University and is a few blocks from the University City campus of Saint Joseph's University, which absorbed
University of the Sciences in Philadelphia in a merger, and The Restaurant School at Walnut Hill College.

Wistar Institute, a cancer research center, is also located on campus. In 2014, a new seven-story glass and steel buildi
ng was completed next to the institute's original brick edifice built in 1897 further expanding collaboration between th
e university and the Wistar Institute.[33]

The Module 6 Utility Plant and Garage at Penn was designed by BLT Architects and completed in 1995. Module 6 is located
at 38th and Walnut and includes spaces for 627 vehicles, 9,000 sq ft (840 m2) of storefront retail operations, a 9,500-t
on chiller module and corresponding extension of the campus chilled water loop, and a 4,000-ton ice storage facility.[34
]

In 2010, in its first significant expansion across the Schuylkill River, Penn purchased 23 acres (9.3 ha) at the northwe
st corner of 34th Street and Grays Ferry Avenue, the then site of DuPont's Marshall Research Labs. In October 2016, with
 help from architects Matthias Hollwich, Marc Kushner, and KSS Architects, Penn completed the design and renovation of t
 he center piece of the project, a former paint factory named Pennovation Works, which houses shared desks, wet labs, co
 mmon areas, a pitch bleacher, and other attributes of a tech incubator. The rest of the site, known as South Bank, is a
  mixture of lightly refurbished industrial buildings that serve as affordable and flexible workspaces and land for futu
  re development. Penn hopes that "South Bank will provide a place for academics, researchers, and entrepreneurs to esta
  blish their businesses in close proximity to each other to facilitate cross-pollination of their ideas, creativity, an
  d innovation," according to a March 2017 university statement.[35]
Parks and arboreta
Further information: Morris Arboretum

In 2007, Penn acquired about 35 acres (14 ha) between the campus and the Schuylkill River at the former site of the Phil
adelphia Civic Center and a nearby 24-acre (9.7 ha) site then owned by the United States Postal Service. Dubbed the Post
al Lands, the site extends from Market Street on the north to Penn's Bower Field on the south, including the former main
 regional U.S. Postal Building at 30th and Market Streets, now the regional office for the U.S. Internal Revenue Service
 . Over the next decade, the site became the home to educational, research, biomedical, and mixed-use facilities. The fi
 rst phase, comprising a park and athletic facilities, opened in the fall of 2011.

In September 2011, Penn completed the construction of the $46.5 million, 24-acre (9.7 ha) Penn Park, which features pass
ive and active recreation and athletic components framed and subdivided by canopy trees, lawns, and meadows. It is locat
ed east of the Highline Green and stretches from Walnut to South Streets.

Penn maintains two arboreta. The first, the roughly 300-acre (120 ha) Penn Campus Arboretum at the University of Pennsyl
vania, encompasses the entire University City main campus. The campus arboretum is an urban forest with over 6,500 trees
 representing 240 species of trees and shrubs, ten specialty gardens and five urban parks,[36] which has been designated
  as a Tree Campus USA[37] since 2009 and formally recognized as an accredited ArbNet Arboretum since 2017.[36] Penn mai
  ntains an interactive website linked to Penn's comprehensive tree inventory, which allows users to explore Penn's enti
  re collection of trees.[38] The 92-acre second arboretum Morris Arboretum is the official arboretum of the Commonwealt
  h of Pennsylvania and includes more than 13,000 labelled plants of 2,500 types, representing the temperate floras of N
  orth America, Asia, and Europe, with a primary focus on Asia. [39]